what is up everybody welcome to a very
special amma edition of ask tom anything
we're going to be going hard I've
already got a bunch of questions
submitted from the impact theory League
in the house which I'm very excited
about and I'm going to be prioritizing
though questions that come in the live
feed as a reward for joining us live yay
thank you and by the way if this is
adding value to your life please do
share it that's how we build the
community for those of you that were
with us earlier this morning you know
you know the very special thing that is
about to happen we're at ninety five
thousand likes on Facebook
we believe that we will cross over the
hundred thousand mark sometime this
weekend so next Wednesday August 23rd
from 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. on the 24th I'm
going to be doing a 24-hour live impact
asan so make sure you join us for that
we're gonna have a ton of special guests
a ton of original unique content things
you've never done before things we've
done many times before total engagement
with you guys it is my way of being of
service I want to show you how grateful
I am when we set our goals for this year
they were the like okay we should just
pack it up numbers were a hundred
thousand across the entire ecosystem by
December 31st we ended up crossing that
in May now we're at almost a hundred
thousand just on Facebook alone and it's
only August so really really grateful
for all of you sharing the content
commenting engaging telling your friends
about it it is amazing and for joining
me here today I'm very grateful I just
got back from Joe Rogan for those of you
that saw that live thank you for
watching and thank you for joining for
this as well we had 15,000 people watch
that interview live so that was pretty
[__] cool if I do say so myself
one of my weirder interviews perhaps we
went all kinds of directions every which
where which is Joe's trademark it was
really a lot of fun to cover just an
insane breadth of topics none of which I
anticipated talking about before going
so that was a lot of fun I really
enjoyed that
and hopefully we'll get a little bit of
that here today as we burn through these
questions so all right remember the
em'ly format is much more concise so i'm
going to be answering the questions one
to two minutes no more we have a lot and
I'm hoping you guys are going to submit
a lot more again I'll be prioritizing
comments in the live feed all right our
first question is from Aiden oh how do
you stay focused in this world full of
distractions I often find myself crafton
ating and watching YouTube videos
forever alright so this really does come
down to habits and routines but this is
one of those things I cannot stress
enough if you haven't built-in
mechanisms to deal with your lesser
nature you're forever going to fall prey
to them some of it is identity some of
it is I'm the kind of person who makes
use of my time some of it is I'm the
kind of person that has goals and I do
that which moves me towards my goals but
then some of it is reinforcing that
belief with very strict rules what I'll
call bright lines so some of my bright
lines are I go to bed at 9 p.m. period
second bright line I only have 10
minutes to get out of bed so I wake up
when I wake up I don't use an alarm but
once I realize I'm awake then I only
have 10 minutes to get out of bed as
long as I've had at least five hours so
look at the clock see what time it is at
10 minutes boom I'm up and i emotionally
reward myself when I meet the deadline
and i emotionally punish myself if i
miss it and when i miss it by the way
it's usually by seconds it's not like
ever I'm just like [__] it and I stay in
bed for 20 minutes that would not be a
bright line so but hard-and-fast 10
minutes emotionally reward yourself were
emotionally punished yourself whether
you do it or not and then just having a
compelling future it is so critical that
you have a compelling future that
there's actually something that you're
excited about and this makes me think of
weekend warriors for most people no one
has to tell you what to do on the
weekend you're very excited to do it
you get out of bed with some enthusiasm
there's something that you want to do
that day even if it's play video games
read watch a movie hang out with your
significant other whatever it is there
is something that you're excited about
and there is a way and I won't answer it
in this question but there is a way to
put at the center of your life and all
the things you're doing to work and to
build something to put that thing you
enjoy at the center of that so that
you're generating income off of
something that you love doing that is
very very
all right next question is from Jeff
jeez is my guess at how you say his last
name how do you develop cultivate the
beauty and rage concept all right so
what is the actual process of Fanning
the flames of anything it starts with
focus so if you know that you want to
build beauty and rage in something and
you know that you want to spend 80% of
your time in beauty and so what is
beauty beauty are the things that are
wonderful they not only put you in a
good mood and help you and hopefully put
others in a good mood and help them and
really do something positive and
empowering there are also the things
that are built on excitement it's you're
looking forward to it you're moving
towards it you're not running away from
anything the rage on the other hand is
the darkness also known as it is the
thing that makes you angry it's the
people that hate you it's wanting to
prove somebody wrong it's coming from
essentially a negative place it's coming
from I won't let these people see me
fail right that is at times when done in
the right balance a very powerful
motivator and so to overlook that is a
mistake
but how you cultivate them is once
you've identified something that let's
say is on the Beauty side that you
really fan the flames and you really
lean into why you're grateful for that
what it is about that that's wonderful
how you think you're going to help
people that reinforcing in yourself I am
the kind of person that wants to help
people that goes out of my way to do
nice things for other people that I'm
going to build a business that has
something at the center of it that is
world positive that isn't something
that's taking away from people you
literally say those things you say them
to other people you rally people around
those notions you talk about them you
let yourself get excited and then this
is the hard part you reward yourself for
being the kind of person that gets
excited about something so positive okay
it's a self-reinforcing loop that just
starts with saying I think this is a
good thing I think it's a beautiful
thing it's something that I'm excited
about it's something I want to move
towards and make happen and it's good
good for me it's good for other people
it's positive it's uplifting and I feel
good about the fact
literally by saying it you're
reinforcing that notion in your head I
feel good about it on the dark side when
somebody slights me when I realized that
they actively want my downfall they
maybe do me the justice of just telling
me to my face they think that I'm going
to fail that I'll hold on to that and I
will at strategic moments never to
exceed 20 percent of my time I will
focus on that and I will focus on the
fact that that person thinks I'm going
to fail I will focus on the fact that I
absolutely [__] refuse to let that
happen and I will stare at it naked Lee
and I will think about how it would feel
to fail what that would be like to know
that that person believes I'm going to
fail and then I did and in that reaction
to that I'll start moving forward with
ferocity and it is actually letting
yourself feel angry and if you need to
furrow your brow tighten your muscles
stand up strike a bold posture really
put yourself in an aggressive dominant
position when you're in the 20% so that
you feel the power because the only
point of dipping into the rage is to
have the anger that's needed to
withstand suffering and to attack it and
to go after it and to make it your enemy
and that's why if you didn't hear in all
of those words how dangerous it would be
to spend more than 20% of your time
there then you run the risk of letting
that overtake you because thinking like
that being in that aggressive stance is
a major turnoff to people it's corrosive
internally over the long run alright so
the next question comes from Mario I am
an entrepreneur in the design and
marketing business this year I decided
to stop working based on the agency
model and promote myself this will also
give me more time to focus on the
startup project so I registered my
websites and started promoting my
personal brand to help this I created a
series of videos podcasts where I
interview other creatives around the
world
I talked to Marvel illustrators
old-school animators artists designers
etc I'm currently in Brazil finishing
the last video so I can start promoting
them I know I have the skills and the
experience I'm curious about how should
I transition from a brand to my own name
should I focus on a specific niche or
market everything I can do how did you
manage to
creates such a strong personal brand in
parallel to your business we all do a
lot of things but I don't want to create
a weak brand that has no focus for
example when you see someone promoting
himself as an entrepreneur health
advocate photographer and writer
sometimes it's just too much okay so I
totally agree with you I think I haven't
read Ryan holidays book perennial seller
but someone highlighted part of it and
put it on Instagram another reason why I
love Instagram if you're following the
right people you can really get good
stuff and in the quote that they posted
on their Instagram is a highlighted
section of the book and it said the
thing that most makes people fail to
create something that will last is that
they try to do multiple disparate things
at the same time so if you look at
everything that we're doing at impact
Theory all of it adds up to the exact
same thing our mission is to pull people
out of the matrix and so everything that
we do has got to feed into that ethos so
whether that is this content where I'm
just laying it out there's no real
narrative to it it is just the direct
ideology or whether it's a show looking
at pop culture and the things you can
learn from pop culture coming soon or
its impact Theory the interview show or
just the traditional narrative content
where it is straight-up you're going to
watch a movie a TV show you're reading a
comic book all of that stuff all has to
exist to pull people out of the matrix
it all has to be empowering content it
all has to give you the same emotion for
the brand so it doesn't have to sell the
same exact product but you need to
immediately understand how all of those
products are connected so yes being an
entrepreneur and health advocate no
problem there I'll tell you right now
that those are two areas that you're
going to see me talk about but both of
them are truly necessary for getting
people out of the matrix so there is an
inextricable link between the mind and
the body you have to understand them
both to cognitively optimize you have to
optimize your health in order to
actually get your mind in the state
where you truly can break free of all
your limiting beliefs so that whether
people see that as the same or not once
you watch enough content you'll get why
that's a necessary piece of it
it being necessary is where it becomes
interesting so for instance if you want
to talk about being an entrepreneur and
a health advocate your photography
better center around those two worlds
because if it's just random photography
then that's where it gets much less
interesting because now it's just
there's no unifying theme for the
audience ok next question is from
Philippa I wrote a long while ago and
told you I was a scientist who writes
fiction on the side I have since quit my
job as a scientist because I realized I
was not 100% passionate about it and I
didn't want to do that for the rest of
my life plus I was not having a
lifestyle I enjoyed now I have to figure
out what I want to do next since I am
not in a position where I can live off
of my writing I have savings that will
allow me to pursue the other interest
for about a year ok so what's my advice
what's the best strategy if you have a
year and you know exactly what you're
trying to accomplish then what I would
try to do is figure out what is the
fastest thing that you can sell because
basically you've got a year to begin
generating revenue that's actually a
really long time so you have to get a
realistic picture of what can you say
what is the Delta right so your writing
makes you X and leaves you Y amount of
time how much can you monetize that
remaining amount of time and what is the
gap between what you're earning as a
writer and what you need to live on so
that's really the only gap that you have
to cover then I would try to leverage
the infrastructure that is already there
to help you get jobs as a writer so
without knowing exactly what you want
your writing to be let's pretend for a
second that it's something that other
people value as well so if you want to
write all the time a great way to
supplement that would be say creative
copy or something like that to find an
ad agency that's writing really
interesting copy maybe narrative focus
using the or leveraging the technology
of something like up work where you can
work from wherever on whatever hours you
want you're still writing but you're
able to monetize that now I'll tell you
right now you
can definitely make a full-time living
as a freelance writer so it just comes
down to when you say you can't make a
living off your writing how you're
defining the writing what writing you'd
be willing to take for work and how
familiar you are with freelancing and
making that work and if you have a
science background Jesus you could be a
science writer which they can charge an
arm and a leg
so even if you only made part of your
day doing the science writing and the
other part you tried to spend maybe
writing for an ad agency or something
like that but let you dive more deeply
into the creative you ought to very
rapidly be able to build out a portfolio
of clients assuming you can actually
write well and that is the hard thing to
face but I'll just be really arrogant
for a second it would be very easy for
me to make north of $100,000 maybe
significantly more than that just as a
copywriter so and that's just using up
work by the way I can do that from Bali
Bora Bora
Tahiti like revver so understanding the
tools and the technology that's already
out there that's got the infrastructure
for something like this where you have a
year and you need to build up that
client base while you leverage your
savings all right so that's my advice
getting some questions coming in amazing
amazing so here we go question from
Brian Jacobsen how much do you think
your internal dialogue has to do with
your anxiety depression in the beginning
I think that it played a huge role and
that's how the neurons began to fire
together and wire together you just but
it's a little more insidious than just
the dialogue because my dialogue was
possible but I would paint scenarios of
something going wrong
I would imagine like and a lot of times
it was just what if scenarios like I'm
sinking through like to protect myself
so you know what if you go out there and
you don't remember what you were going
to say like how would you deal with that
how would you deal with it if like the
audience started booing well now what
I'm thinking about is the audience's
booing and the I've forgotten what I'm
going to say so all of the things that
I'm thinking through are negative
scenarios my brain begins to think about
them and then some part of your brain
goes Jesus I never even thought of that
and so that gets into a pretty dicey
arena so you need to make sure that the
things you're obsessing about are things
going positive that you're actually
putting in all the work thinking about
that today that any time I'm going to do
something like
this I don't need the questions ahead of
time I don't need to prepare and the
reason is my entire life is the
preparation for these things so there's
not going to be any last-minute cramming
that I could do that would make even
like a tiny bit of difference between
what I already know and have spent the
last you know 20 30 years accumulating
that knowledge making the unique
connections talking to people about it
really establishing it as something that
I understand is an actual worldview so
when you obsess about something and
don't prepare for the negative stuff
you're not setting yourself up for
failure that either happened or didn't
happen based on your preparation going
into whatever you're going to do so
thinking about all the ways things could
go wrong thinking about all the
potential problems and ways you would
deal with them just focuses you on the
problem and you get we focus on so if
you focus on forgetting you're going to
forget if you focus on things going
badly you're things are going to go
badly you've got to be able to fill
yourself with confidence all right next
question is from Thomas and Rica's and
he says can I come work for you if I get
jay-z and contact with you yes depends
on how you define work that's the only
catch but man if you let me define that
then absolutely but that would be
amazing and so if you're serious we
should definitely talk alright next
question comes from Mike Bryant what
happens when technological unemployment
affects 90% of humanity if we let that
happen and we haven't put in place
things like basic universal income we're
[__] and there's just no long and
short of that we have to find a way to
create a thriving middle class even if
that's with universal basic income so I
am NOT an expert on this so I will leave
it at that but that is a problem that
absolutely without question must be
solved hopefully by people who know a
lot more about it than I do next
question is from KJ Norland ER did Noah
Galloway change your perspective on
having kids at all in the future
no and I so hope that Chase will FLAC me
a follow-up to that as to what they
thought would do that so the thing to
remember about me and kids is I'm well
aware that they are transformative
emotionally
they are magical little creatures who
change your perspective on everything
who when you're on your deathbed you
will think thank God I have these
children I would be so profoundly alone
right now if I didn't have them and the
heartache and loss that one would feel
at merely imagining not having children
should if they did have children at that
point I bet is very very profound and I
bet once you have kids and the chemical
change that takes place you look at
people that don't have kids do you think
if you would just listen
if you would just understand how
beautiful and transformative and
powerful it is you would do it
immediately and to that I say that is
neurochemical change and if you study
the levels of happiness and people who
have children almost universally they
are lower all the way until the child
leaves and they don't return to normal
until after the child leaves so from a
purely objective statistical fact
perspective about momentary happiness
children ruin it it is as far as I can
tell the only impossible job like doing
it right Wow is a crapshoot it is it is
truly one of the most noble things any
human being can do and I am so grateful
obviously that people do it and that
it's a beautiful experience and that
from the inside of it even though your
happiness levels go down the sort of
deep fulfillment goes up I'm very glad
that people experience that I get that
in other ways in my life building things
is what sets me on fire but I'm told
that we have some follow-up wouldn't it
be interesting to see what kind of role
model you would be for a child a it
would be be I was a role model for a
child and spent eight years as
essentially a big bear I call it a big
brother wasn't officially part of that
program but I worked with him for eight
years and it was magical and
transformative and has continued to echo
through my life so when I say I get it I
get what it's like to have a child look
to you like your salvation that you're
offering them a better life than they
have anywhere else I can't tell you how
many times rashon ask to come live with
me
and yeah so I get it and I'm saying it
from a place of actually understanding
it so and I fully recognize that
understanding intellectually is
different than feeling it emotionally
and he wasn't actually my child and so
I'm well aware of that I was very young
but nonetheless I had enough of the
taste to be able to understand that I
desperately desperately want kids the
only thing I want more than kids is to
not have kids so it isn't me going oh
man having kids sounds like it sucks
having kids sounds like it would be
amazing but it also doesn't suit what
I'm trying to do with my life and so
therefore not having kids edges it out
and then also emotionally I exist in a
place where my life is literally my
dream I have constructed it brick by
brick to be exactly what I want it to be
on a daily basis so I don't have that
that sense of like man I could really
fill this void with something and have
dogs okay enough on that next question
comes from Jeremy Thompson have have a
great idea but barely make it paycheck
to paycheck how do I start to plan and
bridge the gap towards execution is
there a way to access funding and would
you recommend it for a first-time
entrepreneur I would say that I
absolutely have no reservations if you
can raise money raise money absolutely
you will learn a ton in that but only
raise money if you plan to sell the
company and you're very very happy
listening to somebody else who knows a
lot more about what they're doing so if
you think of it as I've got this idea
for a product and I essentially want to
go to business school raise money and
raise money from the firm that wants to
be actively involved and you should then
want them to be actively involved and
then work very closely with them to
learn about how to do a business so the
next one that you could have more
control but do not raise money if you
want to be autonomous you want control
it will be a nightmare and also their
model is between three and seven years
they expect you to sell sell or IPO I
guess technically you could do that but
you're going to like the odds of you
losing control are almost 100 percent so
if you can go into it looking at it like
business school I think it's great
otherwise do the side hustle thing
build it on the side just clock a lot of
ridiculous hours go without a lot of
sleep build this thing up learn along
the way but you can retain control that
way and if your product is real and
people are excited about it and this day
and age of social media and the ability
to build communities you really can get
it off the ground far enough to start to
get people's attention you'd have a lot
more leverage when you go to raise money
if you decide to go down that path
alternatively you could grow a little
more slowly over time and do it all
yourself so that there's no one right
answer but there's also no excuses right
so making it paycheck-to-paycheck is you
know so many people live there and at
some point you just have to be so fed up
with that that you don't accept it
anymore and that you make radical change
in your life whatever that looks like
all right next question is from Ned
Ardis Joo hey Tom do you think the dark
side is the only way to conquer doubts
and fears thanks no I do not think that
so the dark side has a very specific
application it is a tiny minority of
your time so 80% of all your problems
80% of every encounter that you have 80%
of the time you have to look inward all
80% of the time you should be coming up
with the beautiful things so things are
moving towards things you're grateful
for the awesome stuff in your life all
the great things you know will come out
of this if you can just get your company
across the finish line help your
children volunteer your time be a
politician like whatever your thing is
it doesn't have to be an entrepreneur 80
percent of all of those problems will be
solved with the beautiful things the
rage comes in I find for me the rage is
about those times where I am I'm just
spent I don't have anymore and I maybe
I've failed and I'm just embarrassed and
I'm tired and I don't want to keep going
where I'm scared and it's like [__] am I
actually going to be able to pull this
off at those moments when the beautiful
things are in the throes of failing me
that's when I think about the people who
want me to fail and that for me I'm just
I don't tolerate that I don't accept
that I'm going to give them what the
one I don't accept that that would feel
like so much [__] so because I'm
absolutely unwilling to tolerate that in
myself that kicks me in the ass and gets
me going again but I know better than to
spend a lot of time there but I leverage
that that is nature's gift it is how
you're able to endure more suffering
anger anger allows you to endure more
suffering they've done Studies on this
this is a major saying like in a rural
way literally anger allows you to endure
more suffering so when the only answers
suffer more keep going that's when I
leveraged anger only after I've tried
all the beautiful things and they
continue to fail me anger will make you
take action just true okay next question
comes from Siddharth Kapoor I'm good at
communicating and arguing law can be a
good career option for me but I am late
for it which other careers can be good
for me I'm late for it I'm assuming that
means you think you're too old and I
would say that's a bad reason not to do
something so I would say the reason you
should either do or not do it is whether
you think that you will fall in love
with it whether it will really be a deep
passion for you whether it'll make you
come alive and whether or not it's the
thing that you would love doing every
day even if you were failing if that's
law than get into it I will say that
lawyers have the highest rate of
depression and may I may be wrong about
this but may also have the highest rate
of suicide that part I could be making
up the depression thing I'm sure about
because being a lawyer you have to be
negative you have to look at all the
things that could go wrong and like I'm
saying before and you obsessively focus
on all the things that could go wrong
you're just living in negative land so
maybe way that and I wouldn't worry
about whether or not you're too late for
that so the last part what other careers
could be good for you being persuasive
and communicating well works everywhere
so there literally isn't an arena where
even if you're a solo writer being able
to write persuasive arguments is still
monetizable so I would say that that's
universal applies everywhere all right
next question from Aaron Elias what is
your take on energy upgrades and wave
sweeping the earth what is your take on
ascension I have no idea I've never
heard those words put together in that
fashion before I fear I'm going to fail
you entirely I have absolutely nothing
but ignorance on this topic
forgive me all right next up Carolina
Wilk Tom what do you think about dr.
John D martinis teachings two in a row
totally ignorant I have no idea who dr.
John Demartini is forgive me next
question
Jessica Terra Ceia how do you find your
audience once you have a passion I want
to speak but I can't help everyone at
once I was told I need to find my
audience did you do this and did you
find value in this all right let's
deconstruct this a bit so in the world
of social media the easiest way to begin
to build your audience and so there's a
difference between social media and
speaking with speaking you need to put
together a reel that shows how you can
speak you need to pick a topic that
you're very good at that have speaking
opportunities and then start small start
with local groups get up and speak make
sure you're recording yourself so that
you get this reel of people make sure
you post it on your own channel so
people can see it and that you're
showing up for certain keywords so when
people are searching for that they're
going to see you partner up with other
people especially and this is easy if
you're in the world of motivation if
you're in the world of motivation then
there are all kinds of accounts that are
desperately looking for content and if
you're able to speak very powerfully
that you could start sending them your
content getting a partnership going with
them
so that you're able to give them pushing
you out maybe they have a small audience
to start but let's say if they only have
a thousand people that's a thousand
people that otherwise would've seen you
so building those relationships going
out being valuable to their community
just building this up brick by brick
getting more and more people exposed to
your ideas create a high value add
social accounts whether that's Twitter
or whether that's Instagram Facebook all
of it do Facebook lives maybe only a few
people show up in the beginning but if
you're adding value to their life
they're going to tell somebody about it
so this all comes down to how good are
your talks how much value do they really
add to people and if it adds a lot of
value then you'll find that people just
keep coming back and if you're not
growing here's the hard
reality if you're not growing you're not
adding enough value so one of the most
powerful things that I learned from
reading Disney's biography was that
every time the company wasn't where he
wanted it to be he refocused on making
the product better the product better
the product better it's not about making
the marketing better marketing better
marketing better it's about really
really focusing on the product and in
this case the speech is your product so
making sure that you get your product
great and somebody that's done a really
good job of talking about that process
is Lewis Howes so I would go hit him up
I would check out what he's done what he
did his whole thing with going to
Toastmasters and starting out like he
was reading off sheet of paper his hands
were trembling he couldn't even look up
from the piece of paper and then you
know however many months or year later
he's getting paid to speak so putting in
the reps getting better practicing and
then also in a group like that you're
meeting other speakers who may be
getting gigs they may be asked to do a
gig they don't want to do but then they
think of you and so they pass it on to
you I've gotten a lot of my speaking
work that way it's just word of mouth so
get out there get after it next question
comes from Cage hits Cage hits really
Cage hits that's amazing that's so
amazing I'm tempted to think it's a
screen name
but cage it says you say you are
building this community for later down
the road to build the studio what skills
would you recommend we cultivate now in
order to provide you with value down the
road questions like these make me want
to like cuddle the camera or the
microphone or something like you can't
imagine what it means to me and everyone
else here when you ask a question like
that dude anybody that says social media
is like destroying the fabric of society
they've built the wrong community can we
just agree on that thank you just first
of all for asking that question that's
so amazing I will say this pursue your
truest and best life whatever makes you
come alive whether it can be useful to
us or not like don't worry about that
we're going to be here we are going to
remain providing content for free so
don't think you have to
help us to be an amazing contributor to
this community just asking that question
is [__] amazing and I'm so grateful
for it the skill set that we will need
the ones that were really focused on now
we need writers and artists that's a
really really big deal for us
so writers and artists we're building
out contests where hopefully partnering
up with things I won't say until it's
real we're partnering up with a very
large company that is just amazing at
attracting writing talent very excited
about that I really really hope we close
that but yeah we're starting right now
on comics and so we need writers for
comics we need artists for comics
ultimately we'll also be putting
together so the whole notion of impact
house is meant to get creatives here
whether screenwriters whether
traditional authors whether comic book
writers and artists bringing people
together to meet each other to bounce
ideas to get things going will present
people with ideas that we're trying to
get into production so if somebody is
graduate or not graduating gravitating
towards that they want to latch onto one
of those projects and go into our
development cycles and that's also
something so I guess watch will be
making announcements around that you can
also paying us a connect one of the
contracts that I'm working on now is our
submission thing so you guys can submit
it know exactly what your rights are who
attends what all that good stuff so but
anyway to the first part I'll just
reinforce that live the life that makes
you feel most alive and if that aligns
us that's really really amazing being
still be a really vibrant contributor to
this community without that okay next
question
Davis Sarat how besides speaking for
free a lot do you build a career and and
the following as a speaker how do you
self publish your book effectively
alright those are two very different
questions one I'll let me just go
through them alright so how do you build
a career and a following as a speaker so
you you're sort of discounting the one
thing that I would say is the right
answer and that is speak for free a lot
and the reason that you're going to be
doing that's just like interning you're
going to be getting your name out there
you're going to deliver value there's no
barrier to entry to bringing you on
other than they need to vet to make sure
that you can actually do it
but if you can do it you're getting
what you want it's not the money the
money is not what you're after the money
or sorry the the short-term money is not
you're after the long-term money only
comes if you're able to build a
reputation and really improve as the
speaker get out there and absolutely
crush it right so don't lose out on the
opportunity to make $100,000 a speech
later because you want $5,000 a speech
now okay way better to say you know what
I am going to do this one for free you
know what my normal fee is $10,000 a
speech but actually I'm going to waive
this one and I'm going to do it for free
you can either do that so that you're
letting it be known that like that's
your normal fee but your job if you're
trying to build a following especially
you've got to get out and do it it's
literally shaking hands kissing babies
it's letting people know you're there to
be of service to them and that you're
not just trying to be a rock star
if you swagger out on the stage do your
thing drop the mic and then peace the
[__] out like you're not going to build
a following so in the beginning like
dude let me tell you when like I'm going
tonight if you're in the LA area 7:00
p.m. downtown LA boom town baby look it
up meet and greet and despite the fact
that I have a 9:00 p.m. bedtime I will
stay there and answer every question
that people have period period why
because I want you guys to know that I
am serving you and I want to do that
because ultimately I'm going to need
your help I'm going to need your support
as we're building the studio and there
are going to be things that hopefully I
can create that are valuable enough to
you that you would rather have that
thing than the money but the only way
that you're going to feel that is if you
recognize what this company really
stands for who I really am as a person
that's that's my silver bullet and so
we've built what I think is one of the
most rapidly growing organic audiences
and take organic lightly we do a lot of
cool marketing shifts some of which we
throw money at but it's all real people
it's not like bought farms in India or
anything so we've got to be one of the
fastest growing and the reason for that
is this company every human being that
touches any aspect of this company is
just dripping a desire to help so as
long as people feel that and you're
willing to go the extra mile I think you
can really be
something special all right next
question and I did fail you on the the
self-publishing thing but I'm going to
little long in the first part and I
don't have I've never self-published a
book before so I just be giving you sort
of best practices and marketing anyway a
question from David Daley if humans are
truly malleable and capable of achieving
anything why unless we put in thousands
of hours to master a skill why can't
humans master skills much more rapidly
than this alright this is actually a
fascinating part of evolution and the
trade-off that we have done so if you
look at other animals and take ants for
instance there's a certain type of ant I
forget their name but they can build as
a unit complex structures they can pick
things up they can hang from things they
create shapes they turn into towers it's
insanity and all of that is
pre-programmed nobody teaches them
anything from the drop the moment they
come out they're ready to go they can
build these structures it's all just
instinct it's all built in now when you
build stuff in what you're trading off
its flexibility so the reason that it
takes so much time and energy is because
we have said you know what don't pre
build much in but instead be a canvas
that can respond aggressively to its
environment that you can go in virtually
any direction that you need to go in and
that flexibility giving us the
opportunity to thrive in crazy
environment to specialize in something
overtime to change our specialization to
adapt to changes dramatic changes in the
climate that we otherwise would fall
prey to that's why we've survived long
enough to become the apex predator
things that wiped out other people
didn't wipe us out because we could
adapt so it's a trade-off for maybe
complexity of skillsets from day one and
flexibility of skill set over the long
run so that is why all right next up
from Cameron R in any new books you
would add to your 25 most real is grit
on there yet we need to add grit so I'll
just tell you grit a hundred percent
some of the other books are more sort of
fetishy for me like homo Deus rocked my
world but I wouldn't put it on the 25
the 25 are
are just the best books I've read
they're the most foundational to
building an empowering mindset and so
there are many many many amazing books
that I'm tempted to just keep making
that list longer longer which is why we
did the knowledge trail but right now I
would say with the exception of grit
which does need to be on the list I
don't have anything that I think is
foundational enough to add but I think
we've listed something roughly like the
last chase last hundred books I've read
something like that so take a look at
that moving
excuse me moving forward we're going to
be posting my notes that I take on the
book bear with me I take the notes for
me so I don't write them worried about
whether they'll make sense to you sorry
sorry selfish I know but we thought
people might enjoy seeing them anyway so
we'll be doing that moving forward all
right Corinne Davis how do you
differentiate between when it's time to
pivot or dig in alright so this is the
grit or quit question to find really
interesting and Eric Barker covers this
in his book barking up the wrong tree
and in that he talks about whoop w o o P
and whoop is the device you're going to
use to figure out whether you like
something enough to push on or whether
it's something that you should quit so
it goes like this
the W is for wish what is your wish what
do you want to make come true
oh it's for obstacles so what is the
sorry oh the first though is an obstacle
it is oh god is it objective I'm going
to say it is somebody's going to look
this up I'm failing myself right now
objective like how do you actually plan
to get there what is the path to that
then the next one so basically making
your wish concrete so that's the
important part even I'm not getting the
right word the second o is obstacle Wow
so what is the obstacle that you're
going to have to overcome in order to
get there and then the last the P is you
look at this up by a chance plan alright
so I think I need to look these up I
should have fast access to this oh god
let's see how fast we can get there
that I've just muddled this one up I'm
too terrified or horrified with myself
so which outcome obstacle plant alright
so wish the outcome so making it
specific and concrete so the wish I want
to be rich one day the outcome I want to
be rich by building a nutrition company
okay
obstacle what's going to stop me now
there's sixteen hundred protein bars on
the market so how we differentiate
ourselves we're going to have to become
our own manufacturers create something
new and marketed in the whole different
way plan okay how do we actually take
over social media what does a thousand
screaming fans look like and you just
back into that you've all heard me I
assume at this point heard how I backed
into why we're creating a studio and all
that so I won't do that also very long
but that's whew alright so if when you
do your whoop you sit back and go man
I'm ready to go after this is amazing
I'm so glad I did it I now my plan I
know exactly what I'm trying to do
that's something that you should pursue
you should grit it out and keep going
even if it's getting hard if when you
lay out the plan you're like dear God
that sounds exhausting I'm not sure I
want to be that then that's something
that you should quit and move on to
something else alright
found that pretty fast chase thank you
for your help
next one Chris Barry do you think
glyphosate is behind a lot of the health
problems associated with the microbiome
being damaged alright so this is one of
those rhyme early enough in my research
that I know the word glyphosate but I
don't remember what it means so I'm
going to look it up really fast and then
I will tell you what I think it's behind
glyphosate oh the pesticide so this is
that thing yeah that everybody is super
freaked out over I think it's in roundup
and people just are not happy about this
[__] I don't know I think that
environmental toxins was part of it and
there's this whole concept called pops
persistent something pollutants and I
don't remember the O stands for I'm
really I'm not doing well with my
acronyms today but persistent pollutants
the exposure that we get BPA is one that
people talk about a lot I think you prob
begetting it's one of the things that
either disrupts your endocrine system
disrupts the microbiome itself
one thing that I'm testing like if
you're really paying attention my
Snapple is now see-through and the
reason that I do see through Snapple now
I'm cutting it about two-thirds water
and a third Snapple is I want to see if
I notice any difference from
significantly reducing and maybe
ultimately completely cutting out all
artificial sweeteners from my dad I want
to see my for so long just relied on the
fact that I don't feel any difference
that that doesn't mean that I'm not
edging towards catastrophe every day so
I'm going to try it and give it a real
legitimate shot let's call it sixty to
ninety days with right now commit to
with highly minimized amounts of
artificial sweeteners
I won't go all the way there some things
in my diet that God to be hard to get
the level of fat in my diet that I want
in a pleasurable manner without
artificial sweeteners and since I'm not
convinced you have the artificial
sweeteners disrupt things as much as
they might so anyway
glyphosate it's bad clearly we should
get it out as fast as we can any toxins
that cause any sort of disruption in the
body they'll stack so I doubt the
glyphosate is like the end-all be-all
but I bet it ain't helping so yeah
that's a that is the microbiome and that
should be fascinating you want to talk
about something I I have to stop myself
from putting on the twenty five list and
and I might one day just because the the
connection between your gut and your
brain is so powerful you just can't get
your mind where it needs to be alright
ah the tap Nataniel
Nataniel arity man that's as close as
I'm going to get alright when are you
coming to Indonesia I need to share a
lot of things I have no plans to come to
Indonesia yet I would love to have a
reason to go to Indonesia considering
the share here I know this can be very
nerve-wracking to share something
vulnerable you can also DM me that may
be a way to get something across a
little easier than me coming all the way
to Indonesia next question
avi add you've talked about depression
and the indisputable benefits of
exercise there is also research building
on the therapeutic use of psychedelics
do you have any experience with any so
I'm super intrigued by what's going on
in the areas of psychedelic research on
that and if you read Jamie Weil and
Stephen Cutler's book stealing fire they
go into that really intriguing and I'll
be watching very closely over the next
several years I've never experimented
with psychedelics because I am a chicken
there's no reason other than that I'm
just afraid that something will happen
and I guess my identity for so long it's
been that of the guy that doesn't do
drugs and yeah so I drink occasionally
alcohol and my wife has gotten me to try
weed I think three or four times it's
just not my bag man so anyway it's funny
though that I still consider myself the
guy that doesn't do drugs even though I
drink occasionally and I have smoked
weed a few times and that likens back to
Dan Ariely this whole thing about people
will he says in the context of lying
people will lie right up to the point
where it forces them to change their
identity and that's where they stop and
so I guess I do the exact amount of
drugs that I can do and still feel like
I'm a guy that doesn't do drugs to be
consistent with my identity fascinating
the way the human mind works so I can't
help you a psychedelics but find it very
very very intriguing and honestly it's
one of those things the more data that
comes out like I might have to try it if
for no other reason than to see if it
has an impact on my anxiety which would
be utterly fascinating all right
athol Ann Ann Ann deceive em Wow
I want to hear that said well hi Tom I'm
a music composer studying composition
and writing music for advertisements and
soundtracks for short films how do you
recommend that build relationships with
agencies to receive more scoring work as
well as promote myself through snap as
it's a closed platform let me know if
you can Thanks alright dude being in the
game of creating music right now in this
day and age is unbelievable so right now
my friend
there are hundreds
not more motivational accounts they are
so desperate for music and I'll count us
in that so every week we put out impact
quotes we have to find music somewhere
somehow that we're not going to get a
copyright flag for using if you write
amazing music there are so many people
that would desperately want to get a
hold of that music write something for
them give them you don't even have to
give them exclusive rights just let them
use it if you let them use it they will
take the life out of you so you get a
tag you start finding big accounts and
you can write really powerful music
remember this all comes down good are
you really so you actually have to be
good so I'm I'm basing this all on the
desperate hope that you don't just think
you're talented that you're actually
talented but if you're actually talented
my friend in this day and age with
social media with YouTube people are
desperate for music desperate so go
forth and prosper you should be pinging
them all every morning should start with
hours of outreach telling people that
you write music and that you want to
give them music they'll flip out they
will flip out all right Chris good
what's your thoughts on the best way is
to overcome the apathy or lack of Drive
when it comes to depression in order to
get the momentum you need to start
making progress again okay
depends on where on the depressive
spectrum you fall so I'm going to say
that you're all the way over here like
catastrophic can't get out I've been in
it for a year or more like this is just
bad news I don't want to get out of bed
nothing all right
that is a brain chemistry imbalance it
is also almost certainly tied to your
gut so the first thing I would do I'm
not bullshitting you the first thing I
would do is read the gut brain
connection is the name of the book that
talks about the two-way communication
the neurotransmitters that are signaled
and received the fact that I think it's
70 per-- notes 95 percent of the
serotonin in your body is stored in your
gut anybody else
hearing that 95 percent snot all made
there but 95 percent of the serotonin
one of the things that makes you feel
good elevates your mood back SSRIs
select
of serotonin reuptake inhibitor it
basically stops your serotonin from
being revitalized so serotonin is the
name of the game when it comes to
depression 95 percent of it is stored in
your gut so if your gut is sucked up you
can imagine that your serotonin levels
are in real danger so that is something
that you really have to just become an
expert in so doing the hard work unlike
the the chemistry of your problem that
you thought I was going to say start
with positive thoughts or some stuff
which you do want to do but those are
they have to be in addition I don't
think you're going to think your way out
of clinical depression so you're going
to have to get way more hardcore about
identifying the chemical imbalance that
you have getting the neurotransmitters
right ideally without drug intervention
but if you need it use it 100% that is
way better than not doing anything but
anytime you're taking taking an
exhaustive source you should be trying
as rapidly as you can to get off of it
now let me tell you if I need a drug I
would use drugs I'm just saying it's not
the greatest long-term strategy so move
away from it if you can
all right questions from Barry Hannah
you have had the chance to sit down with
some amazingly impactful individuals
both with impact theory and in sidequest
how do you feel impact who do you feel
impacted you the most how has this
impacted your business and personal life
who the most he's my favorite so you
were saying Goggins right he is my
favorite and he had a big impact on me
but that's really about suffering and
the honest answer is Tim Ferriss but he
impacted me with his book and I don't
think people know how much that book
changed the course of my life I read the
4-hour workweek and it made me see
marketing in a whole new way and that
whole new way and becoming quest
nutrition
looking for my thousand screaming fans
which is he got from Kevin Kelly I think
but I read about it in Tim Paris never
checking my email I got that from the
4-hour workweek and what that is done to
my the demands of me to always control
my own company and where I'm going and
not let not be reactive to other people
but to have a plan and to be disciplined
in my execution against it all of that
is critically important so it wasn't
from the interview but him and Tony
Robbins probably have had the biggest
impact on my life and as they both been
guests so the person that in real-time
maybe had the biggest impact on me
actually two people in one of these were
surprises so Goggins yes and then the
other was Blake Leeper and Blake Leeper
changed this show and if it wasn't for
him he was somebody back at inside quest
at inside quest we were in our formative
years we didn't really know what the
show was I thought it was going to be
all business all the time I didn't want
people who hadn't liked accomplishes
crazy things in their life and they were
pitching this kid really hard who was
like trying to make a comeback like he'd
been gotten in trouble for drinking and
then he got like kicked out of a
competition or something cuz he tested
positive for cocaine they're like but
he's a double amputee and he can run and
I was just like Quran is where does this
go
and they're the brilliant people behind
the show
Christopher Courtney Lisa and I'll just
assume Casey was in on it as well they
were just like you really have to give
this guy a shot and so I did it and
halfway through the interview I realized
this this his human interest story his
overcoming the obstacles his
imperfections his willingness to be raw
and vulnerable and my willingness to
reciprocate and go there with him is the
show at its finest and so then it was
like oh my god you guys are so right
like we need more guests like this and
that really became the new paradigm for
the show all right that field will
indulge in there's not a lot you guys
can take away from that so I'll move on
Carolina Wilk asks what do you think
about the law of attraction it's 50%
awesome and 50% total [__] so the
50% that is awesome is you get what you
focus on and so if you're thinking about
I can make these positive things happen
I can do this it's going to give you the
sense of confidence and belief that
allows you to take that first step in
that first step is everything the part
that total [__] is I can will a
parking spot I still can't believe that
was actually an example they gave I can
will a parking spot into existence it's
called waiting around long enough so
somebody in a park spot that you want
leaves like
so anything that inspires people to not
take action to just sit there and think
about something that that winds me up so
massive action is the only thing that
works so if you're thinking about
positive things all the things you want
to make come true all of that and it's
forcing you to take massive action
you're going on your x gene you believe
that you can do it you focus on that you
can do it and then you actually learn
the skills acquired us and go and
execute the nats [__] amazing so when
i watch the secret i loved it and i just
shut off my brain to the parts that I
thought were madness which by the way is
a very good technique don't throw the
baby out with the bathwater
just because half of it doesn't make any
[__] sense doesn't mean that the
other half isn't amazing so use what
makes sense discard what doesn't that's
how you become a unique person all right
next up Miriam - funny how do you deal
with disappointment along the way when
you've started a new business okay so
this one for me the thing that I use to
combat disappointment disappointment is
twofold one I believe I can learn
anything so the failure the
disappointment okay what did I learn
what can I do better next time and then
also I'm viewing myself on a very long
timeline so I'm messin up I have failed
I missed a huge opportunity let's say
and there's an awesome
from Jim Carrey he said until you have
had somebody come up to you and say hey
there's so-and-so out in the audience
tonight and they're there make or break
if you do well tonight you're going to
make it if you do poorly
tonight it's never going to happen for
you he said until you [__] that up
five times you haven't even started yet
and I loved that so much because people
are going to think oh my god it's all
riding on this one thing [__] no NBA
career rides on any one shot never rides
on any one game it doesn't even ride on
any one championship series at the end
of the day is about showing up
consistently day after day month after
month year after year decade after
decade relentlessly acquiring skills
relentlessly learning from your mistakes
so that all of this is adding up to
something so I'm on Joe Rogan today that
interview goes so many [__] weird
places and it was really fun because on
many of them not all of them but many of
them like yeah I've thought a lot about
this I've read about this I oh wow like
here's the topic I never thought we were
going to talk about but I can go there
because I've been out of just a desire
to learn I've been reading about a lot
of different topics to find out which
ones tick which ones are exciting for me
which ones really add up to something
that's usable so when you take yourself
over a long timeline and you just repeat
these behaviors over and over and over
and over like the obstacles they fade
into the distance it just becomes one
more learning experience and when you
remember that all of life is but
practice and nothing is ever performance
there is no big day there's only one
more time to practice dealing under a
high-stress situation or under the
bright lights like whatever the case may
be
but when you know this is just one more
opportunity to practice and I will get
another opportunity again because I'm
willing to get great I want everyone to
listen to the following words these
words are often repeated and so they
become cliche and so people stop to hear
the real power in the words if you want
to be successful there is one path get
so
good they can't ignore you get so that
they can't ignore you if they can ignore
you you have not yet gotten good enough
and once you just accept that [__]
hard core truth that if they can ignore
you you have not yet gotten good enough
go watch dragon the Bruce Lee story that
that is an awesome [__] tale of a guy
who got so [__] good they could not
ignore him they wanted to at every turn
the amount of racism that that guy ran
into was [__] insane
he created the show oh god what's it
called raised among traveling land
grasshopper kung fu he created kung fu
about himself a Chinese man it was
played by a white guy I've got to
imagine that was very troubling for him
but did he just flip out shut down and
say this is unfair no he kept getting
better and he started making movies [__]
him if they won't let me on TV then I'm
going to make movies and I'm going to
make martial-arts films that are unlike
anything else anyone has seen he used to
take challengers in martial arts
competitions he would get in the ring
and say hey anybody want to fight if you
want to fight come in right now I will
fight you and just to show people I'm
the bad [__] martial artist there's
no one else that can touch me and
because he was that good he went as far
as he went you got to get so good people
can't ignore him all right that's when I
just [__] keep going about all right
Jimmy Allen and by the way I saw a
minute ago somebody doing a driving
symbol are we running out of time well
so we can add them all to the 24 hour
thing 24 hour live coming to you live
next Wednesday so the reason that we're
doing the live by the way is we are
about to cross over to 100,000 likes on
Facebook and to show my deep and
unending gratitude to this amazing do
you guys know how different you are the
most communities this [__] crazy the
only advice anyone ever gives people
don't read the comments don't read the
comments don't read the comments when I
need to be cheered up I read the
comments
you guys are so supportive of each other
you're so supportive of the show you're
so supportive of me and the ideas that
we're trying to get out there it's
unbelievable
I am deeply grateful I feel compelled to
do an act of service
and so as a thank you and a sincere sign
of my appreciation for 24 hours I will
not sleep I will not do anything but
bring you entertaining information that
you can use we're going to have a bunch
of guests we're going to have new shows
that we've never done before we're going
to do live versions of shows that you're
used to we're going to do super intimate
QAS and I will answer every single no
matter how long I have to stay up once
or every single question that gets
submitted by 6:00 a.m. on the 24th so
only reason that I'm capping it there's
I don't want to be trolled that's the
truth so as long as it's submitted by
6:00 a.m. I will answer every single
question in that 24 hour period so join
me it's going to be very special I know
some of the team here is going to stay
up even though they don't have to to be
a part of it god I love them for that
the team is unreal they're unbelievable
I want to hug the ones that like to be
hugged which we broke down doing the
captivate research and wave at the ones
that don't yeah it's amazing I'm
insanely grateful so I ask that we're
doing a live event tonight otherwise I
would just stay here until all questions
were answered this is amazing how many
questions you guys are submitting I'm
really grateful for that as well if
you're in the LA area we are going to
night 7 p.m. boomtown boomtown
confirmation please boom town brewery
going to boom town brewery I will be
answering questions live and in the
flesh I will stay until they kick us out
and then I'll answer questions out the
parking lot if I have to but I will stay
until every question has been answered
no matter how long it takes so meet me
boomtown brewery downtown Los Angeles
two nights at 7:00 p.m. and so how long
do I have right now to answer
before we have to leave and I need like
a 15-minute buffer okay so we've got
about five minutes left all right
so Jimmy Allen I forever have been an
extremely ambitious person the Pratt the
past month I've been attacking as many
podcast books and everything from
yourself and suggested people I have now
become an extremely habitual person and
the changes have been dramatic I own a
successful business that I devote
everything to how do i balance my home
work life more efficiently My partner
and I are extremely happy but I can't
help feel her life is on hold so I
achieved my goals thank you for the
person you are Wow thank you that's very
kind
okay there is no Universal answer to
this so the truth is I have no interest
in balance none whatsoever
so one of the reasons that I don't want
to have kids is I don't want something
pulling for my attention so the reason
that my wife and I founded the company
together was the more we became
ourselves and pursued our goals we
wanted that to be driving us together we
wanted to be sharing things we wanted to
automatically know what the other person
is doing just because we're so
entrenched we're so in it together we're
building something side-by-side so that
is how we have found what my wife calls
harmony which she got from Lisa Nichols
very amazing and talented Lisa Nichols
I don't seek balance I seek harmony so
that's something to really think about
at the end of the day you should try to
live the life that makes you feel most
alive and finding the way to engage your
partner in that is very important and I
love how thoughtful you're being about
your partner and that you're thinking
about her that's uh that is a great sign
that great things lay ahead for you you
guys need to find what that way is for
her to get the time that she needs going
to start with communication ask her flat
out like what do you need is it if like
half of Saturday is just you and me
nothing else no phones no email no
matter what like that is our time and
there are going to be some awesome
moments where something in your company
is burning
the ground and you're going to show her
that she is more important that that
half a Saturday is you and her and
you're going to ignore it and you're
going to wait until the end so moments
like that I think is just very very
important to figure out what those
important things are okay time for one
more this is from Audrey Sutherland how
can I have a good relationship with my
boss you even have to know a lot about
your boss you're going to have to figure
out what it is that makes your boss tick
what's their communication style what is
their their value system literally read
captivate it will really help you what's
their ocean score so that you understand
how they perceive the world you
understand the things that mean
something to them so that you can
communicate in their language and then
at the end of the day like if you know
what they want you've had them lay it
out you know exactly what they expect
you know what their language is how to
communicate back then it's about just an
obscene level of performance for your
own reasons by the way don't do it to
impress your boss do it because you want
to be a linchpin do because that makes
you feel good for yourself do it because
that level of skill that ability to play
at that level is marketable you can go
anywhere but I find that one and some of
this does depend is your boss insecure
or they have they gotten to a good place
in their life if they're insecure then
unfortunately things like flattery can
go a very long way and there's some very
distressing studies about how even when
somebody knows that the flattery is
insincere that they still like it so
understanding that if there's politics
in your company figuring those out what
are ways you can make your boss look
good helping other people shine is
always a pretty great way to get ahead
but if I had to boil it back to
everything that's universal
communication understanding their
communication style understanding their
values and really getting absolute
clarity with what they want and then
deliver on that and surpass all
expectations alright guys I have to bail
out for now hopefully I will see many
many many of you that are here in
los angeles-area tonight 7:00 p.m.
downtown LA boomtown brewery asked for
Tom Dooley or impact Theory we're going
to have our own little group and I'll be
there answering questions till there are
no more questions to answer so I look
forward to seeing you guys thanks so
much for joining me for this man your
questions were awesome if we didn't get
to them now we will make them part of
the live on August 23rd starting at 9:00
a.m. and going to nine am that specific
time we'll be doing questions there it's
always going to prioritize you no matter
who the guest is no matter what we're
going to be taking your questions so if
you want to jump in at any time know
that we will for 24 hours have somebody
manning the comments to make sure that
if you have a question that it's getting
answered so all right that's it guys
thank you so much if this added value
please do share it that's how we're
building this community that's how we've
gotten as far as we've gotten we're very
grateful for every single share and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
you